Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we are going to ask the question, what about security?
Because while we've been building this application, we never asked ourselves what would happen if a
malicious or evil user visited the app?
Now, up until this point, that's been OK because this app lives on our personal computer and we are
the only ones that can access it.
But in our next lesson, we are going to learn how to push our application up onto the internet so that
the entire world can access it.
So we need to take a few security precautions to make sure that our app is ready for that kind of exposure.
Big picture in this lesson, we are going to do two things.
Number one, we are going to add basic password protection to our app so that even if a random stranger
finds out our apps public internet address, they will still not be able to actually access it unless
they know our secret password.
This way, we can share the password only with our friends and family that we really trust.
All right.
And then after that, we are also going to add an insurance policy so that even if a malicious user
finds our app and somehow guesses our secret password, we can protect ourselves from their basic hacking
attempts.
OK, so right now, let's start with task number one and add basic password protection to our application.
Essentially, when someone tries to visit our app, we want their browser to first prompt them to enter
a username and password.
Let me show you how we can set this up.
So in our text editor within Server Dot J.S., if we scroll down just a bit here we see the area for
App Doggett and it's a forward slash.
This is representing the home page, right?
This is the area where we are sending the HTML template, maybe right above this app Doggett line.
Let's write a new line of code.
Let's create a function and let's give it a name.
The name could be anything but just so you and I are on the same page, let's name it.
Password protected parentheses, curly brackets and within the parentheses for our new function, let's
give it three parameters.
Let's go with our AQ for request.
R.C.S for response and the new one next.
OK, now within the body of our new function, let's do two things.
First, just as a test, let's log a message to the app's console.
So let's say console dot log.
And let's just say our custom function just ran.
OK, and then right below that, let's also call the next parameter.
Now let me explain what in the world is going on here and what this means.
So in the Express Library, remember, Express is the framework we are using to create web applications
with Node.
And we know that Express offers this basic syntax where we can say either APT Get or App Dot post,
and then for the first argument, you spell out the URL that you're listening for.
And then we know that the second argument is a function that you provide that express will call when
this request happens.
So we're familiar with that.
But what we are not familiar with is the idea that we can provide multiple functions here.
So check this out.
Instead of just having two arguments, write the URL and this anonymous function right after this comma,
I want you to type out the name of our new function.
It's password protected and then a comma.
So now we are giving this app target three arguments.
If we wanted to, we can give it five or ten arguments.
The idea is that after you provided the URL you're listening for, you can provide multiple functions
and Express is going to call each function one at a time in a row.
This is where that new next parameter comes into play.
So when someone visits our home page now, Express is first going to call our password protected function.
It's going to run, and then it's going to see that we're calling next.
That's our way of telling Express.
OK.
This function is done.
Now, go ahead and move on to the next function or the next argument that you included here at this
point.
Let's take it for a test drive.
So if we save this file and then be sure to have your command line open so you can see the message being
logged to the console.
Also, make sure that your app is up and running.
But then if we go to our browser and send a new request or refresh the home page back in our command
line or console, we see our custom function just ran.
Cool.
Now we don't actually want to send a message to the console like that.
Instead, what we actually want to do is prompt the visitor to enter a username and password.
So let's get rid of that console, that log test line.
And instead, let's say response.
Dot set.
And we're going to give it to arguments, let's say a comma b for the first placeholder instead of a
let's give it a string of text and say W w w dash authenticate.
This will ask the web browser to enter a username and password to authenticate itself.
And then for the second argument, instead of the B placeholder, let's add a string of text and we
basically just give our application a name.
So we say basic realm equals and then include an opening double quotes.
And let's just call it simple to do app and then close out those double quotes.
All right.
And then on the next line, let's temporarily get rid of this next call and in its place, let's add
an if statement.
So if parentheses curly brackets right after the closing curly brackets for the F, let's also add an
else so else and then curly brackets.
And for our condition or within the parentheses.
For the if statement, let's say only if the username and password that the visitor enters equals something
specific.
So we can say request dot headers, dot authorization to access the username and password that they
typed in.
And then we can say only if that equals again, double equals sign to check for equality instead of
assigning a value only if that equals.
And then for now, let's just say a string of text that says placeholder, and we can circle back to
this value in just a minute.
All right now, the idea is that if the visitor does type in the correct username and password, if
this evaluates to true, well, only then would we want to call next, right?
We would only want to let people with the secret password ever actually run the real function that sends
them to the home page.
But within our else brackets here, if they did not enter the correct username and password, then let's
send back an error message.
Let's say response dot status, and we'll send back in http code of 401, which means unauthorized.
And then we can say Dot Send and let's send back a message to the browser that just says authentication
required before we go ahead and save this and test it out.
Let's add one more line right above our if statement.
And let's just log out to the console or console the log and let's log whatever the user had typed in
for username and password.
So our AQ dot headers dot authorization.
OK, at this point, I'm going to save this and take it for a test drive.
Also, make sure that my command line is visible so we can see the username and password that's getting
logged to the console.
Now, back in the browser, I refresh, you can see that I'm prompted with a username and password field.
Now we are checking for some magical placeholder value that doesn't really make immediate sense of how
that would match to feels right.
Two separate fields of username and password.
But just as a quick test type in a random value for username and a random value for password.
Now, when we submit that as soon as we go back to our console, we see that it was encoded into Base
64 format.
Now we can leverage this in terms of what we check for to see if they typed in the quote correct username
and password.
Let me show you what I mean.
So back in the browser, let's try this again.
You're free to choose your own username and password that you want to share with your friends and family.
But in my case, I'm going to choose a username of learn, and I'm going to choose a password of JavaScript.
In your case, just choose something that you can easily remember.
Now click Sign in.
And now back in Arkansas, this value of basic and then a space and then this string of characters,
that is the value that we want to check against instead of quotes placeholder.
So in your command line, just copy the word basic and then that string.
Copy that into your clipboard.
And then in our if statement, when we're checking for the equality of get rid of the quotes, placeholder
and say quotes and then just paste in your clipboard.
Now let's save this and test it out now, because just a moment ago, I typed in the correct username
and password into my browser.
It's going to remember that.
That's why it's giving me access to the application.
If you want to test things out, you'd probably need to either quit your browser application entirely
and then relaunch your browser, or you could always open up an incognito or private window.
So, for example, here is an incognito window that's not going to remember that username and password
that I just typed in a moment ago.
And so now if I visit local host colon three thousand cool, so visitors have zero access to her application.
If they type in an incorrect username and password, it's just going to keep asking them to try again
if they click Cancel.
They're going to see authentication required, right?
This is the code that runs from our class bracket.
If they do not enter the correct credentials, but if they do enter the correct credentials.
So if I refresh and type, learn for the username and JavaScript for the password, you can see that
our if statement evaluated to true and we were successfully carried on to the next function for that
URL.
Perfect.
But we don't want to only protect our home page URL.
We would also want to protect all of our other URLs, such as create dash item and Update Dash item
and delete dash item.
So our first instinct might be to go into server logs and scroll down until we find apt.
Post four Create Item and just after this comma type in password protected comma.
Now this would work.
There's nothing inherently wrong with this, but it would be very repetitive and we would have to list
that out several more times.
So let's actually get rid of this.
And let's even scroll up to our home page Route AppKit for the base URL, and let's even get rid of
password protected here, because instead I want to show you a more efficient way where you can add
a function to all of your routes or URLs.
Check this out right above this app target line.
Let's simply add a new line and say App Dot Use.
And then within these parentheses, we just list our function name password protected.
This tells Express to use our function for all routes.
So it's going to get added on as the first function for all of our URLs.
And then when our custom function calls next, that will call whatever the next function for that route
would be.
OK, so that takes care of the basic password protection for our app.
Now let's change gears and work on a new task.
So we are only going to share that username and password with friends and family that we trust.
But if a malicious user did somehow guess that username and password, I want us to still be safe.
So for example, at the moment, I want to show you what could happen if a malicious user got into our
app.
They could enter the following into our create field.
And you do not need to worry about pausing the video and typing this in this exact code does not matter.
All that matters is that it's malicious.
So they could add this.
So it created a link that says, Click this and if I click on it, it runs a JavaScript pop up.
Now I have some bad news.
If a malicious user is able to run a JavaScript pop up, that means they can run anything they want.
And this is a security nightmare because now anyone that visits our application, any of our friends
and family will be exposed to this potentially dangerous JavaScript.
And as a developer, we never want to endanger the visitors of our app like that.
We never want to let one user execute JavaScript in another user's web browser like this now in our
future, more complex app app number two.
We will have a proper template engine generating our HTML view, and in that case, the user's input
would never actually be executed like this.
Instead, it would just show up visually like this, which is completely harmless.
But in this simple To-Do app or app number one, that's not the case.
We don't have a traditional template engine to escape the user's content.
So we are vulnerable to malicious JavaScript like this.
So in this case, our best bet for now is to just prevent the user from ever being able to enter that
malicious code into our database at all.
In other words, when someone typed something into this field, let's use our node server to clean up
or sanitize and make sure that it's normal and innocent before we actually accept it into our database.
Let me show you how we can set this up.
So back in our text editor, I'll let you know that luckily, we don't need to write all of the logic
to detect HTML or JavaScript within a string of text.
Instead, all we need to do is go out to the JavaScript grocery store or npm and pick up a package.
So open up your command line lets press control C to quit our server because we want to run a command.
Type this in with me.
NPM install and the name of the package that we are interested in is sanitize Dash H html.
Go ahead and press enter.
All right, now, up at the top of our server dog's file, let's import or require in that new package.
So let's say let sanitize each HTML equal and then just require it in Sanitize Dash HTML.
We can make up the variable name, but this name needs to be exactly like this all lowercase with the
dash.
All right, now, let's go leverage this package.
Let's find our URL or route for the create item.
So below the HTML template, we're looking for this area where we say APT.
Post four create item.
This is where we are using the Insert one method on our database collection.
So this is the user's input.
We are storing.
And this is what could be potentially malicious.
So before we inserted into the database, we just want to clean it up or sanitize it.
So check this out.
Right before this debate collection line, let's write a new line.
Let's create a new variable and call it safe text.
You could name it anything, but let's be on the same page.
And let's just set it to equal.
And then let's call our Sanitize HTML package, and we give this to arguments so a comma be the first
argument.
Instead of this, a placeholder is the text or input that you want to sanitize or clean up.
So that would be request dot, body up, text, whatever the user typed in.
And then the second argument instead of this placeholder be.
This is where we include a few options.
So we include a JavaScript object, so curly brackets.
This package has one option named allowed tags.
And let's set that to equal so colon and just an empty array.
So empty square brackets because we do not want to allow any HTML tags after the closing square bracket.
Let's include a comma.
We're interested in another option named Allowed Attributes column and set that to equal an empty JavaScript
object.
This way, we are not allowing any HTML tags or attributes.
So now whatever the user typed in will be stored in this safe text property, and it's only going to
be plain cleaned up text nothing evil or malicious.
So now that's what we want to save into the database.
So within this insert, one method where we are setting text to equal something, just get rid of this
request that body text and instead include safe text.
Also on this line where we're saying response dot JSON for this text property instead of request dot
body dot text, it would be safe text.
Now let's do the same thing for our update item route.
Right?
Because the user could also click on the edit button and include malicious code there.
So to save a bunch of typing, let's just copy and paste that new let safe text line into our clipboard.
So grab this entire line.
Copy it.
And then down within our update item route, right above its collection line, just paste in your clipboard.
And then within its find one and update method, but scroll over a little bit.
We're looking for the dollar, Sign said, because that's where text is being set to the user's typed
in input.
So let's get rid of this request dot body, not text and replace it with safe text.
All right.
At this point, let's go ahead and save this file and test it out.
Be sure to fire up your application again.
So in the command line 21:00 Run Watch.
First, I want to show you that this malicious item from the beginning of the video was indeed stored
in my database.
So here's my MongoDB Atlas account, and you can see that that code actually made it into the database.
However, now if I delete this item and try to enter that malicious code again.
And if I go back over to MongoDB Atlas and refresh my database, you can see that all that made it through
is literally just the words Click this.
There's no code in there.
It's just plain English.
This is because that was the only innocent part of this string of text that I tried to enter.
All of the potential HTML and JavaScript got stripped out or cleaned out or sanitized out.
Awesome.
And that brings this lesson to a close.
In our next lesson, we are going to learn how to push this application up onto the web so you can share
it with your friends and family.
Let's keep things rolling, and I'll see you then.